Geiriadur Ynganu Bangor | Bangor Pronouncing Dictionary
-------------------------------------------------------

The Bangor Pronouncing Dictionary is a free pronouncing
dictionary of Welsh, suitable for uses in speech technology
technology and is maintained by the School of Linguistics
and the Language Technologies Unit at Bangor University.

Bangor University does not guarantee the accuracy of this
dictionary, nor its suitability for any specific purpose. In
fact, we expect a number of errors, omissions and inconsistencies 
to remain in the dictionary. We intend to continually update the
dictionary by correction existing entries and by adding new ones.
From time to time a new major version will be released.

We welcome input from users. Please send email to Sarah Cooper
(s DOT cooper AT bangor DOT ac DOT uk) and/or Dewi Bryn Jones 
(d DOT b DOT jones AT bangor DOT ac DOT uk)

The Bangor Pronouncing Dictionary, in its current and previous
versions is Copyright (C) 2005-2025 by Bangor University. Use of
this dictionary for any research or commercial purpose is completely
unrestricted.  If you make use of or redistribute this material we
request that you acknowledge its origin in your descriptions.

If you add words to or correct words in your version of this 
dictionary, we would appreciate it if you could send these additions
and corrections to us for consideration in a subsequent version. 
We're grateful to the following for their contributions to the 
current version:

 - Sasha Wanasky
 - Preben Vangberg


Ffeiliau | Files 
----------------

bangordict.dict :    ~30k gair Cymraeg gyda trawsgrifiadau ffonetegol ASCII ac IPA set ffonemau Bangor
                     ~30k Welsh language words transcribed with Bangor ASCII and IPA phonetic set

bangordict.en.dict : ~20k air Saesneg gyda trawsgrifiadau ffonetegol ASCII ac IPA set ffonemau Bangor
                     ~20k English language words transcribed with Bangor ASCII and IPA phonetic set

cmudict.dict :       Geiriadur ynganu CMUDict gyda trawsgrifiadau ffonetegol ASCII ac IPA set ffonemau Bangor
                     CMUDict transcribed with Bangor ASCII and IPA phonetic set

phoneset.md :        Set ffonemau Geiriadur Ynganu Bangor
                     Bangor Pronouncing Dictionary phoneme set


